
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)


**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD

03 March 2022

 

A regular meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 03 March 2022 at 6:00 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members Attendance **


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>3-Mar-22</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>1Password
   </td>
   <td>Pedro Canahuati
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Vijoy Pandey
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>Jordan Harband
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>Erik Ekkuden
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td>John Andrukonis
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Google*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Kai Chen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Greg Lavender
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Neil Allen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>NCC Group*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Fernick (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Open Web Application Security Project*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Guy Podjarny
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Twilio*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Ian Coldwater (Security Community Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Observers and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observers</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Brown
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Christopher Polanec
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Justin Hutchings
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Aron Xu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Melissa Evers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Director
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jory Burson
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jenn Bonner
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Strategic Advisor 
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Dirk Hohndel
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VP, Research
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Hilary Carter
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VP, Research
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Hendrick
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Guests</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Harvard Business School
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Frank Nagle
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Michael “Miki” Komraz 
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 6:02 am Pacific Time, and Jenn Bonner (JBonn) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda**

BB introduced the agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

 

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Introductions**

BB reviewed the current Governing Board Directory. 

BB introduced new Governing Board representative from premier member Jordan Harband (Coinbase), and new TAC Representative - Bob Callaway (Google).

**Approval of Governing Board Minutes**

The Governing Board discussed the minutes from the meeting on 3 February 2022. 

BB called for a motion to approve the minutes of the 3 February 2022 meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. Jamie Thomas (JT) motioned to approve the minutes and Subha Tatavarti (ST) seconded the motion. Jordan Harband (JHD) abstained. The motion passed with no representatives objecting. 

**Note Approved GNU Toolchain Initiative**

RESOLVED: That the GNU Toolchain Initiative (“GTI”) Fund be established as a Specific Initiative Fund underneath OpenSSF with $285,000 guaranteed out of the core OpenSSF funds, is hereby confirmed and approved.

The resolution was approved via email on 10 February 2022. Vote attached as Exhibit B.

**Note Approved Governing Board Appointments to the TAC**

RESOLVED: That the following three individuals be appointed to the OpenSSF Technical Advisory Council by the Governing Board: Aeva Black (Microsoft), Christopher Robinson aka CRob (Intel), and Josh Bressers (Anchore), is hereby confirmed and approved.

The resolution was approved via email on 15 February 2022. Vote attached as Exhibit C.

**Frank Nagle presenting on Census II (25 min)**

Frank Nagle (FN) joined the meeting to share the results of the Open Source Census II. FN reviewed that the primary objective of the Census II is to better understand which free and open source software packages (application libraries) companies and/or industries rely on in daily operations, how many instances of each FOSS package, and what upstream and downstream dependencies result from the use of each by analyzing datasets on private usage. The Census II builds on the preliminary report issued February 2020.  

FN noted that the analysis is based on over 500K observations of FOSS usage in 2020. The report is not a definitive claim of which FOSS packages are the most critical, and represents a best estimate of which FOSS packages are the most widely used by different applications, given the limits of our data. 

The Census II lists recommendations for the eight top 500 lists, including security audits, additional analysis, additional resources, standardized naming schema, and considerations for the complexities associated with package versioning. 

John Heimann (JHH) asked whether the results are representative of average open source software packages. FN noted that Census I focused on the app level whereas Census II focused on app libraries, and the premise was these applications represent those organizations deemed worthy enough to scan. The scope is not restricted to private sector applications – it's everything the SCA scanned in 2020. 

**Updates**

BB provided an opportunity for the Governing Board to provide feedback on the 2022 OpenSSF project/staff OKRs. If no additional comments are received over email, the OKRs will be considered approved. 

BB noted that the edX course content will be moving back to LF Training, in order to reach a wider audience and to provide an option for a free-of-charge certification of completion.  

BB reminded the Board that he [SupplyChainSecurityCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/about/supplychainsecuritycon/) is set for June 21-24 in Austin, in parallel with [Open Source Summit](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/). An “OpenSSF Day” has been added on 20 June, and participation and sponsorship by Governing Board members is welcome and encouraged.

BB shared with the Board that the OpenSSF and the Atlantic Council are close to agreement on a $250k package of activities: a joint report on supply chain security, two “dialogue memos”, four private roundtable / workshops and four briefings for US, EU, and APAC audiences. 

**Follow-Up To the White House Software Security Summit**

BB provided an overview of the three overarching goals of the January 2022 meeting at the White House: 



* Securing OSS Production: focus on preventing security defects and vulnerabilities in code and open source packages in the first place
* Improving Vulnerability Discovery & Remediation: improving the process for finding defects and fixing them
* Shorten Ecosystem Patching Response Time: Shorten the response time for distributing and implementing fixes.

The goals provide a useful frame to present a series of “activity streams” to meet each of these three goals. Each stream will be identified with a 2-page document that outlines a clear problem statement, approach or solution, goals and costs. 

BB reviewed the activity streams, and asked for volunteers to participate in each. 

The following members requested to follow-up after the call:



* Mike Hanley, GitHub
* Sarah Novotny, Microsoft
* Michael Komraz, Snyk
* John Heimann, Oracle 
* Vincent Danen, Red Hat 

**Goal 1: Securing OSS Production**

Stream 1: Make baseline secure software development education and certification the new normal for pro OSS developers.



* Volunteers: 
    * Jamie Thomas 
    * Stephen Augustus 

Stream 2: Establish a public, vendor-neutral, objective-metrics-based risk assessment dashboard for the top 10,000 (or more) OSS components.



* Volunteers: 
    * Stephen Augustus 
    * Rao Lakkakula 

Stream 3: Accelerate the adoption of digital signatures on software releases



* Volunteers: 
    * Bob Callaway 
    * Stephen Augustus 

Stream 4: Eliminate root causes of many vulnerabilities through replacement of non-memory-safe languages

**Goal 2: Improving Vulnerability Discovery & Remediation**

Stream 5: Accelerate discovery of new vulnerabilities by maintainers and experts.

Stream 6: Establish a corps of “volunteer firefighter” security experts to assist open source projects during critical times



* Volunteer: 
    * Eric Brewer

Stream 7: Conduct third-party code reviews (and any necessary remediation work) of 200 of the most-critical OSS components yearly.



* Volunteers: 
    * John Heimann (JHH) is working on this already, as are probably a number of member orgs. John is happy to help coordinate. 
    * EB noted that 7 & 8 go together. JHH agreed. 

Stream 8: Coordinate industry-wide data sharing to improve the research that helps determine the most critical OSS.

Stream 9: Fund research in advanced AI/ML to assist scanning and false-positives detection.



* Volunteers: 
    * Eric Brewer - noted that Stream 9 needs a path from research to usable tooling. JT agreed. Ian Coldwater noted that directing efforts to other streams may have higher value. SA and MH agreed. 

**Goal 3: Shorten Ecosystem Patching Response Time**

Stream 10: SBOM Everywhere: improve SBOM tooling and training to drive adoption.

Stream 11: Enhance the 10 most critical OSS build systems, package managers, and distribution systems with better supply chain security tools and best practices.



* Interested: 
    * Eric Brewer
    * Aron Xu

Stream 12: Fund research into end-user barriers to quicker updates and patching of OSS components.



* Volunteers: 
    * Note: EB and Dirk Hohndel discussed Stream 12, and agreed that this steam needs a better explanation and description. AvdS and Mark Ryland agreed that Stream 12 will be very challenging. 

BB shared the schedule for drafting, editing, and reviewing the response paper, targeting 7 April for final Governing Board approval for publication. 

**Any Other Business**

BB thanked everyone for attending the meeting, and encouraged everyone to take a look at the additional information provided in the slide deck. 

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 7:00 AM Pacific Time.
