![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)


**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD

03 February 2022

 

A regular meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 03  February 2022 at 6:00 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members Attendance **


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td><p style="text-align: right">
<strong>3-Feb-22</strong></p>

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>1Password
   </td>
   <td>Pedro Canahuati
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Vijoy Pandey
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>Erik Ekkuden
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td>John Andrukonis
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Kai Chen
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Greg Lavender
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Haning (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Neil Allen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>NCC Group
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Fernick (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Guy Podjarny
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Twilio
   </td>
   <td>Ian Coldwater (Security Community Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Observers and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observers</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Christopher Polanec
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Justin Hutchings
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Aron Xu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Melissa Evers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Director
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jory Burson
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jenn Bonner
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director, OpenJS
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Robin Ginn
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CTO, GM of Products
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Shubhra Kar
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 6:02 am Pacific Time, and Jenn Bonner (JBonn) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda**

BB introduced the agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

 

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Introductions**

BB reviewed the current Governing Board Directory. 

BB introduced new Governing Board member Subha Tatavarti and observer Andrew Aitken.

**Approval of Governing Board Minutes**

The Governing Board discussed the minutes from the meeting on 6 January 2022. 

BB called for a motion to approve the minutes of the 6 January 2022 meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. Neil Allen (NA) motioned to approve the minutes and Chris Wright (CW) seconded the motion. The motion passed with no representatives objecting or abstaining. 

**Updates**

BB provided an update regarding the TAC/SCIR election. The election is underway, and is set to close on Sunday. BB will then propose by email a slate of three more candidates for Governing Board approval either via online UWC, or at the next GB meeting.

BB shared that there is a momentum press release being developed to announce new OpenSSF members, aiming for distribution late next week. New Premier members will be highlighted with a top-line quote.

BB shared that subsequent Board meetings will be held at 9:00 am ET on the first Thursday of each month. JBonn will create and send meeting invites for the remainder of this year after this call.

BB shared that LF Research is moving forward with an initial ~$89k project, see Exhibit B in the email sent to the Governing Board yesterday. The LF will host an informational call with Governing Board members within the next two weeks to discuss further details. Guy Podjarny (GP) referenced an earlier discussion on this topic, and asked for a summary that identifies what was incorporated into the proposal based on feedback from this discussion. 

BB shared that the dates for [SupplyChainSecurityCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/about/supplychainsecuritycon/) are now set for June 21-24 in Austin, in parallel with [Open Source Summit](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/). 

**Update on Alpha-Omega**

BB gave a brief update on the Alpha-Omega Project. A press release was published on 1 February, and links to coverage are available in the Board package. 

A [webinar](https://zoom.platform.linuxfoundation.org/webinar/register?project=tlf&id=XHF4GGCF4iiJoDT5XOlAtoIt0HxqGdfJ5xyvR6iN4XRuZwSfeXR4%2FyBFdQt%2BbgPDO%2B0I5GMg0%2FIUPW7kiTA%3D&logo=thelinuxfoundation-color.svg&zoomID=93513438813) on Alpha-Omega Project is planned for 16 February 2022. In the meantime, project leadership is working on OKRs, volunteer engagement model, job posts, and the governance model for other sponsors and financial contributions. 

CW suggested that the OpenSSF clearly articulates the difference and similarities between Alpha-Omega and SLSA - how are they complementary, what is / isn’t directly a part of OpenSSF. BB agreed and noted that this will be part of the OKRs around clarity and cohesion.

John Heimann (JH) asked how the process of formulating the vulnerability disclosure and CVE process will be done. BB agreed that this will be one of the most delicate parts of Alpha-Omega. The intention is to utilize the OpenSSF’s working group focused on CVE processes, and will aim for a light touch and collaboration with maintainers.  Jennifer Fernick (JF) offered to contribute to this effort. 

 \
Jonathan Meadows (JM) asked if it would be possible to see a supply chain graphic overlaid with OpensSF working groups and areas of funding, plus areas that are not covered, how to propose additional working groups, and point to the documentation on how to do that. BB responded that the TAC is the best place to start, and offered LF staff to discuss further offline. David Wheeler (DW) offered to share a supply chain graphic that the previous Board had put together, and Mike Hanley (MH), JM and Jeff Borek (JB) expressed interest in viewing it.

**Follow-Up To the White House Software Security Summit**

BB provided a summary of activity following the White House Software Security Summit. Post-meeting publicity drove a nice bump in press coverage, membership pipeline, and working group engagement.  There has been lots of positive feedback regarding OpenSSF’s presentation. There were no clear signals of White  House driven new funding. There were some signs of interest in involving and aligning with other countries also focusing on this topic, in particular UK, Australia, Germany, and Japan. It was also clearly communicated that a multi-year investment into key OSS initiatives is needed to modernize the security and integrity of the software supply chain.

BB shared that going forward, OpenSSF and the LF will remain in regular touch with Anne Neuberger’s team, as well as with individuals at many of the other agencies represented (ONCD, CISA, FTC). 

Jim Zemlin (JZ) shared that the LF is drafting a baseline document, building on the White House presentation closing slide, identifying six-seven broad areas for investments, but with meaningful goals. It will be crucial to the Board to use the document to secure resources and funding to execute on the plan. The deadline for completing the document is April, in advance of the upcoming CEO summit with President Biden. The Board will have an opportunity to review and provide feedback. 

JZ shared that the LF has staffed a research team, and is also working with external resources such as Ballast Research and the Atlantic Council to help gather US government requirements and understand broader activities by other government entities. JZ stressed that the LF’s aim is to monitor and educate, with a focus on advocacy, but not lobbying. 

GP suggested clarification around consideration for feedback from enterprise consumers. The third bucket around education needs more focus and specificity around open source. 

**LFX Security Expansion **

BB introduced the topic of LFX Security. It is a  situational awareness tool for open source security, and is in production today and includes:



* Best Practices Badge and Project Criticality scores 
* SCA/vulnerabilities in dependencies
* Secrets and non-inclusive-language detection

JZ shared that LFX Security is currently available to all LF-hosted projects, and is in process of onboarding all of them this quarter. The LF is planning to eventually support all consequential open source projects (top ~10k) and become the reference point for evaluating security posture based on objective metrics. There is a non-trivial additional OpEx per additional onboarded project. There is a long list of feature requests: connectors for additional scanners/data sources, maintainer/contributor security profiles. The LF will subsidize this for LF-hosted projects, but additional funds, cloud credits, and other resources are needed to cover all open source projects and additional features/data sources.

Neil Allen (NA) and JH requested to receive further information and demo on LFX Security. 

**2022 OKRs**

2022 OKRs were planned for discussion, but ran out of time. BB shared that the Board will aim to ratify them over email or at the next meeting. 

**Any Other Business**

BB thanked everyone for attending the meeting, and encouraged everyone to take a look at the additional information provided in the slide deck. 

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 7:00 AM Pacific Time.
