
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)




**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD

05 May 2022

 

A regular meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 05 May 2022 at 6:00 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td><p style="text-align: right">
<strong>5-May-22</strong></p>

   </td>
   <td><p style="text-align: right">
<strong>7-Apr-22</strong></p>

   </td>
   <td><p style="text-align: right">
<strong>3-Mar-22</strong></p>

   </td>
   <td><p style="text-align: right">
<strong>3-Feb-22</strong></p>

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>1Password
   </td>
   <td>Pedro Canahuati
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>Adrian Ludwig
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Vijoy Pandey
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>Jordan Harband
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>DeployHub</em>
   </td>
   <td>Tracy Ragan (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>Erik Ekkuden
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td>John Andrukonis
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>GitLab</em>
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Hunt (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Google</em>
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Kai Chen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Greg Lavender
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Neil Allen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>NCC Group</em>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Fernick (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>OWASP</em>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Guy Podjarny
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Twilio</em>
   </td>
   <td>Ian Coldwater (Security Community Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Observers and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observer/Alternate</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Yorra
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Aron Xu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Asaf Karas
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Rohlf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Christopher Polanec
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Justin Hutchings
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Melissa Evers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Brown
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Saugat Sindhu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Stormy Peters
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Director
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jory Burson
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jenn Bonner
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Strategic Advisor 
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dirk Hohndel
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 6:03 am Pacific Time, and Jenn Bonner (JBonn) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the  meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda**

BB introduced the agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

 

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Introductions**

BB reviewed the current Governing Board Directory, and acknowledged two new Governing Board representatives joining for the first time - Adrian Ludwig (Atlassian) and Johnathan Hunt (General Member representative, GitLab).

**Approval of Governing Board Minutes**

The Governing Board discussed the minutes from the meeting on 7 April 2022. 

BB called for a motion to approve the minutes of the 7 April 2022 meeting of the Governing Board, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. Stephen Chin motioned to approve the minutes and Jamie Thomas seconded the motion. The motion passed with no representatives objecting. 

**Quick Updates**

BB gave some brief updates on ongoing OpenSSF activities. 

BB noted that a decision will be made whether to release the [Momentum Press Release](https://openssf.org/news/) this week or next week. He also shared news of a new working group, [Securing Software Repositories](https://openssf.org/blog/2022/04/19/your-favorite-software-repositories-now-working-together/), which was approved by the TAC at the end of April.  

BB then shared that OpenSSF will soon be announcing the full agenda and speakers for OpenSSF Day on June 20. BB reminded everyone that the event is co-located with [Open Source Summit](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/) (June 21-24) and will be a hybrid in-person and virtual experience, with registrations currently over 150. BB thanked everyone for their participation and support for the event.

BB celebrated the announcement of the [Package Analysis project](https://openssf.org/blog/2022/04/28/introducing-package-analysis-scanning-open-source-packages-for-malicious-behavior/) under the Securing Critical Projects Working Group, which has been getting good traction on high-profile security news sites, including [This Week In Tech](https://twit.tv/shows/security-now/episodes/869).

BB also announced that Jennifer Bly will be joining the team as a marketing manager on May 15. 

Additional OpenSSF and project-specific news was briefly shared in the agenda deck, but was not covered during the meeting in the interest of time. 

Stephen Chin noted an issue that was raised in the May 4 TAC call about nomenclature and framing of the recent Package Analysis post. BB noted that an effort is in process to improve and clarify the review process for outside posts. 

**WH OSS Security Summit II Deals**

BB shared the Open Source Software Security Summit II objectives and recapped the details of the planned 

event. BB summarized the scope and timeline of the effort that resulted in the draft Mobilization Plan document that was shared with the Governing Board via email. 

Jamie Thomas (JT) asked for clarification regarding funding objectives. BB clarified that the goal of the meeting is to open the door for conversations and opportunities for public sector funding and grants, rather than secured government funding. Mark Russinovich (MR) suggested that the financial commitments member organizations have already made, in addition to the amounts OpenSSF is seeking to raise, be included in the Mobilization Plan. BB agreed that the Plan should reiterate the substantial commitments that have already been made, as well as the additional funding commitments needed from both public and private sectors. BB asked members to think about the level of detail they need to provide a public pledge. 

Jon Meadows (JM) requested that specific separation between the project and the funding be clarified. BB agreed to clarify that in the Plan communications. 

BB reviewed the anticipated agenda for the first day of the meeting on May 12, specifically calling out participation from government officials at ONCD and NSC. 

BB shared his expectations for the meeting including alignment among stakeholders on the basic plan structure and funding. A stretch goal would be to be able to share a funding number, but that is not a “must”. 

Various Board members expressed their preference for a more abstract discussion on the Mobilization Plan, rather than an emphasis on the timeframe and priority of each work stream. It was also expressed that the focus should be on the united focus of this group, in cooperation with the public sector, on the handful of 3-4 most critical things necessary to move the needle in this space. 

JM suggested that the plan emphasize quantified risk reduction, well-represented outcomes, and clear value creation. 

MR requested that the language in the Plan around “our solution” be softened, given that the path to generating the draft bypassed standard community-driven processes. 

Adrian Ludwig (AL) suggested using the word “approach” rather than “solution”.

BB reviewed the agenda for the second day of the meeting, May 13, which will include discussion on any important changes to the Plan to consider given timing or budget. The second day will also be a time for more discussion around the public engagement model, and work stream leaders.

John  Heimann (JHH) suggested that the Governing Board members each initiate an internal exercise to quantify the current existing investment in securing open source.

BB agreed. The OpenSSF Operations Team will take the action to request from each Governing Board member, their organization’s current investment (financial spend and FTEs) in securing open source software. 

BB also noted that the Mobilization Plan is not intended to impose an alternative governance model to the TAC; projects still have to earn their way into the OpenSSF just like all other open source projects - and hit the same bar as any other exogenous project. 

Mike Hanley (MH) stressed that the Plan includes a lot of breadth among the ten streams, and that the breadth may be working against the overall effort in some cases, given that the goal is to try to demonstrate critical mass, alignment, etc. There is a benefit to narrowing the focus, in an effort to not spread resources too thinly, absent sufficient and specific focus. 

BB reviewed the current list of confirmed attendees May 12 and 13. BB anticipates an additional 5-10 government attendees. BB also expressed sincere appreciation to those taking the time to attend the meeting.

BB reviewed the plan for the readout and press briefing. There will be a media alert distributed on Monday, advising press of the upcoming meeting and briefing on Thursday. Thursday morning, a major Washington DC publication will publish an article to set the scene for the day, and will include supportive statements from NSC and possibly ONCD. There will be subsequent opportunities for op-ed’s and thought pieces that reference the Plan. 

Steve Chin (SC) expressed concern about the lack of a role that the TAC has played in the process to create the Mobilization Plan. While the Governing Board is driving discussions on investments and funding, there is a need for the TAC to be involved in order to make sure they’re in agreement with the technical direction called for in the Plan. 

BB agreed that the TAC should not be bypassed, and ensured that OpenSSF technical leadership has been involved in the creation of and blessing of the plan. BB reiterated that these streams will have to submit themselves to the TAC for approval. 

BB reviewed the key decisions needed from the Governing Board today:



* Of the ten streams, are there any that must be dropped from the set before we go public?
    * There was sufficient agreement among the Governing Board to not remove any work streams. 
* Should we represent the funding goals as a “1 year, yearly afterwards” plan, or as a “2 year, then re-plan”?
    * There was sufficient agreement among the Governing Board to represent funding as 2-year, with a whole lot of TBD. 
* Given the above changes, can we agree to say this represents the best collective foot forward of the OpenSSF?
    * There was sufficient agreement among the Governing to communicate the Mobilization Plan as representative of the OpenSSF. 

Jennifer Fernick (JF) expressed support for the plan in framing and messaging, but noted a need for communication around the lack of open discussion within the greater OpenSF community. 

Guy Podjarny (GP) noted that the current Mobilization Plan is a sufficient starting point, and acknowledged that there is still a lot to be worked out.

**Any Other Business**

BB thanked everyone for attending the meeting, and encouraged everyone to take a look at the additional information provided in the slide deck. 

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 7:04 AM Pacific Time.
