
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)


**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD

07 July 2022

 

A regular meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 07 July 2022 at 8:00 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>2-Jun-22</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>5-May-22</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>7-Apr-22</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>3-Mar-22</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>1Password
   </td>
   <td>Pedro Canahuati
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>Adrian Ludwig
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Vijoy Pandey
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>Jordan Harband
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>DeployHub*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Tracy Ragan (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>Erik Ekkuden
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td>John Andrukonis
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>GitLab*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Hunt (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Google*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Kai Chen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Greg Lavender
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Neil Allen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>NCC Group*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Fernick (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>OWASP</em>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Guy Podjarny
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Twilio*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Ian Coldwater (Security Community Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Observers and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observer/Alternate</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Brown
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Christopher Polanec
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Justin Hutchings
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Aron Xu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Melissa Evers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Asaf Karas
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Rohlf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Yorra
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Director
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jory Burson
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jenn Bonner
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Khahil White
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Marketing Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Strategic Advisor 
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dirk Hohndel
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 6:04 am Pacific Time, and Jenn Bonner (JBonn) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the  meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda**

BB introduced the agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

 

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Introductions**

BB introduced Jennifer Bly, Senior Marketing Manager at the Linux Foundation. Jennifer will serve as the marketing lead for the OpenSSF.

**Approval of Governing Board Minutes**

The Governing Board discussed the minutes from the meeting on 5 May 2022. 

Minutes approval was deferred to the next meeting. BB apologized that not enough time was given for Governing Board members to review the minutes prior to the call.

**Board Meeting Schedule**

BB proposed a new meeting cadence that would allow for more in-depth conversations during the meetings. BB proposed that, beginning July 7, the Governing Board consider transitioning to meeting every other month for 90 mins. The proposed start time would be 11:00 am ET (8:00 am PT). 

Mike Hanley (MH) shared that he was happy for the later start time and longer duration, but would prefer to keep the meetings at a monthly pace. Many board members concurred with MH’s perspective. BB adjusted the proposal to keep the meetings in August, October, and December with extensions to 90 mins, and a new start time of 11:00 am ET.

The remaining year schedule was approved as follows:



* July 7 - approve budget re-forecast for 2022
* Aug 4
* Sept 8 - operational review and activity updates
* Oct 6
* Nov 11 - face to face at LF Member Summit in Tahoe / hybrid meeting, review draft operating budget for 2023
* December - approve budget for 2023
* Duration - 90 minutes, beginning 11:00 am ET (8:00 am PT)

**ACTION:** Staff will update the calendar invites to reflect the amended proposal and time. 

**Open Source Software Security Summit II Recap and Next Steps**

BB thanked everyone for their participation in the Open Source Software Security Summit in Washington DC. He shared some of the media coverage, story highlights, and press release outcomes as a result of the meeting, including a list of 42 press clips. BB again thanked the members for their help balancing the status of the report, and for the additional financial pledges that were made on the day of the summit.

BB requested any member who wanted to share notes from their stream meeting to share those with the operations staff so that they could be circulated properly to the community. 

BB then transitioned to discussing the next steps for the workstreams. BB noted that not all of the streams are well prepared as yet, and that they would likely proceed at different rates. The pledged funds could be deployed along the lines of an investment club, wherein the pledgers would decide if a stream had reached enough maturity to receive funds. BB noted that not all the funds would necessarily be taken in by OpenSSF; some additional structures or organizations could be the proper vehicles. Identifying the proper organization to take responsibility for the outcomes is part of the requirement for funding. BB noted that OpenSSF could use some of its funds to seed some of the initial work in the streams. BB then opened the floor for discussion.

Mike Hanley (MH) noted that some of the streams needed more direction, and asked how the TAC could be involved in planning and governance. BB reinforced that nothing in the plan is meant to override the authority of the TAC to control the quality of OpenSSF’s projects and work. BB noted that many of the projects would likely sit within the current OpenSSF WGs, but that some of the work may be better positioned outside of the organization, and a role for the TAC would have to be identified. BB noted that this is a funding plan more than a technology plan.

Rao Lakkakula (RL) requested that OpenSSF clarify and communicate the alignment of the streams with the working groups. BB agreed, noting that it is a goal to get that picture put together over the next few weeks. RL emphasized that it felt critical to do that as soon as possible. 

BB commented also on the roal the TAC could play in helping to ensure there is accountability for the funds and for the community standards. BB promised a report back before the next meeting on the status and movement of the streams, and how they map to the WGs.

**ACTION:** Brian will provide a report to the Governing Board before the next meeting on the status and movement of the Mobilization Plan work streams, and how they map to the OpenSSF WGs.

Tracy Ragan (TR) asked if there would be any accountability by the Governing Board to these funds. BB noted that the Board’s role would be to allocate funds that have been raised by the members. The OpenSSF Governing Board will not necessarily be part of all financial governance processes related to the Mobilization Plan, depending on how the pledgers choose to spend the funds. Anything done in the name of the OpenSSF should be overseen by the Governing Board. 

John Heimann (JHH) asked about the pledging headcount - for organizations which have already operationalized their internal teams to some of the goals related to the streams, how should they be categorized? BB noted that some lead workstream positions may be too sensitive to be lead by headcount from member organizations, and that on a case-by-case basis we could evaluate which roles could be done by volunteered resources vs. what needs to be done by paid neutral third party. 

John Roese (JR) commented that private efforts when coordinated should be a part of the overall work. Oversight from OpenSSF should focus on ensuring openness and common outcomes, but be open to different ways to execute it.

Eric Brewer (EB) proposed a subcommittee to get more Governing Board involvement with the Mobilization Plan, and to provide guidance for how to move forward with the work and resources for these streams. Eric clarified that this would be more about governance and how we are consistent across the organization with how we engage with the Mobilization Plan efforts. Several Governing Board members were supportive of this. BB took the action to think about this further.

**ACTION:** Brian will provide a recommendation to the Governing Board regarding a new GB Committee focused on the governance of work streams related to the Mobilization Plan. 

Andrew Aitken (AA) asked about the organization’s relationship with OSTIF. BB described the organization’s non-profit third party code auditing services which the OpenSSF has engaged with in the past. BB used this past work as an example to demonstrate the kind of delegation and work that could be done by a third party. Mike Dolan (MD) described the Linux Foundation’s other relationships with OSTIF and how that organization has provided audit services to many open source projects. MD described how their engagement model is different from other auditing services, as it is tailored for open source and open source maintainers. 

**Financial Update**

BB shared slides on the current financials, and provided a high level overview of the organization’s financial status. Revenue is up against plan, but spending has overall been lower than plan due to delays in hiring for key roles including Marketing, Alpha-Omega positions, and so forth. Additional community engagement expenses will be recognized in May and June, to reflect the expenses related to the OSS Security Summit and OpenSSF Day. Development spending has been well below budget, partly due to the extra focus on long term strategy over the past couple of months. The Mobilization Plan is in part a way to better clarify where to effectively spend OpenSSF’s money. 

BB noted that SIFs are currently included in the budget picture, but will be presented separately moving forward. No SIF costs have been recorded yet, but we will see more expenses in the coming months as specific funding options like the Node.js engagement would be reflected. BB also pointed out some immaterial minor accounting quirks to clarify the table for members. 

BB noted that community travel and outsourced development are places we expect to see much more spend happening in the coming months.

TR asked if there is a budget line item for member benefits. BB clarified that member benefits are not an accounting line, but rather the outcomes related to marketing perks, event participation, and other intangible benefits. 

BB noted that OpenSSF is behind on hiring a member success role which would help members get the most out of their membership.

**Budget Reforecast for 2022**

BB shared the reforecast goals for the remainder of 2022, and discussed how revenue from new members would be deployed. The reforecast will also reflect that OpenSSF will not host a dedicated event this year - expenses related to the proposed event will be removed from the budget, as well as associated revenue.  BB described the process, noting that he would get an initial draft out by June 16, a draft for final review by June 30, with a goal for final refinement and approval by July 7. BB asked if there are any other considerations or comments from the Governing Board. Bob Callaway (BC) asked whether WG leads had provided any input into the budget and BB said basically yes, but the GB Budget Committee is closed to GB members. 

**Seed Funding for Streams 7 and 9**

BB shared a proposal to provide seed funding from the OpenSSF budget for work under the Mobilization Plan work streams 7 and 9. For stream 7, the proposal is to grant 200k (not to exceed), to scope work and conduct an audit on the top 10 critical projects. For stream 9, the idea would be to fund development on SPDX libraries for go and python, to boost community developer relations and content development, refresh the website, and to tie this work into the OpenSSF’s Security Tooling WG. The proposed funding for this work would be $350k. 

Andrew van der Stock (AvdS) shared that he has been in contact with other package managers, and that the work on stream 9 should also be aligned with the CycloneDX teams. Brian Fox (BF) noted that the SPDX 3.0 spec is a better direction and there is too much effort on the 2.0 versions which are not equipped. BB noted that we should emphasize that the work we fund should be additive and valuable to version 3.0. BF noted that he is concerned that the work is not truly compatible with the direction of 3.0 and that funding 2.0 would be a distraction. 

JHH stated that he wants to make sure there is a SBOM format that meets the needs of the user. BC and Ian Coldwater (IC) noted that the TAC has not seen these proposals and would like an opportunity for the TAC to review. Mark Russinovich (MR) asked where the seed funding proposals came from and how they were put together. BB shared that the Stream 9 proposal came from the SPDX community, and that he had provided input. MR noted that there needs to be more input and oversight from the TAC, to provide recommendations and oversight to these proposals. 

Jennifer Fernick (JF) and several Governing Board members expressed concern and requested better definition around OpenSSF’s engagement model and execution plan for the Mobilization Plan workstreams, including how companies, the TAC, and others, can work with OpenSSF to take specific next steps. 

BB identified that there was not approval for these proposals today.

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 7:01 AM Pacific Time.
