
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)


**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD

07 April 2022

 

A regular meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 07 April 2022 at 6:00 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td><p style="text-align: right">
<strong>7-Apr-22</strong></p>

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>1Password
   </td>
   <td>Pedro Canahuati
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>Adrian Ludwig
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Vijoy Pandey
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>Jordan Harband
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>DeployHub*
   </td>
   <td>Tracy Ragan (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>Erik Ekkuden
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td>John Andrukonis
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitLab*
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Hunt (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Google*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Kai Chen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Greg Lavender
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Neil Allen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>NCC Group*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Fernick (General Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>OWASP*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Guy Podjarny
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><em>Twilio*</em>
   </td>
   <td>Ian Coldwater (Security Community Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Observers and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observer/Alternate</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Brown
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fidelity
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Christopher Polanec
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Justin Hutchings
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Melissa Evers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Asaf Karas
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Rohlf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Director
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jory Burson
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jenn Bonner
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Strategic Advisor 
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dirk Hohndel
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 6:04 am Pacific Time, and Jenn Bonner (JBonn) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda**

BB introduced the agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

 

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Introductions**

BB reviewed the current Governing Board Directory. 

BB introduced the new Governing Board representatives from premier members Adrian Ludwig (Atlassian) and Brian Fox (Sonatype), as well as two new General Member representatives to the governing board, Tracy Ragan (DeployHub) and Johnathan Hunt (GitLab).

BB then introduced a new LF Program Manager, Khahil White. 

**Approval of Governing Board Minutes**

The Governing Board discussed the minutes from the meeting on 3 March 2022. 

BB called for a motion to approve the minutes of the 3 March 2022 meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. Jamie Thomas (JT) motioned to approve the minutes and Andrew Van Der Stock (AvdS) seconded the motion. The motion passed with no representatives objecting. 

**Quick Updates**

BB gave some brief updates on ongoing OpenSSF activities. 

The “Developing Secure Software” course (which is based on the Secure Software Fundamentals certificate series on edX) has been released on the LF Training & Certification Platform.

John Heimann (JHH) asked for clarification on the education level and strategy of the course. David Wheeler (DW) answered that the materials are not targeted at any specific developer, not language specific, and are made available free of charge. The course was also recently updated to include new data from the Census II report. 

[OpenSSF Day](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/features/openssf-day/) is set for June 20. Curation of the agenda is underway. BB informed the group that stipends would be available for those who cannot afford to travel. There are also OpenSSF member and Linux Foundation member discounts available. 

BB shared highlights from Sigstore, Alpha Omega, and GTI. 

**Recruiting**

BB shared a number of roles for which the OpenSSF are hiring. BB asked the board to help bring attention to these roles and open positions. 

**WH OSS Security Summit II Deals**

BB shared details on the White House Open Source Software Security Summitt II, a follow up meeting to the January 6 White House Security Summit, which will be held on the afternoon of May 12 and morning of May 13 in Washington DC.

Jim Zemlin (JZ) provided an overview of the upcoming meeting, noting that WH OSS Security Summit II will be hosted by the Linux Foundation, in close collaboration with the White House. The White House would like to see the same attendees at this follow on meeting including: the OpenSSF Governing Board, select invitees from other companies, select open source foundations and think tanks, as well as US government representation.

BB described the planned meeting structure and agenda. Day one will focus on requirements and commitments and will include a press conference to announce OKRs and action items. Day one will conclude with a reception. Day two, attendees will break out into task force groups defined by the workstreams, and will further develop goals, OKRs, and immediate action items.

Kai Chen (KC) asked whether the outcomes of the work will be publicly available. BB said yes, that this work is an overlay of the OpenSSF’s WGs’ and projects’ ongoing efforts, and that task force work will have a public facing component to what they do. BB also noted that this is a global effort and that the OpenSSF hopes to work with other governments with parallel efforts. 

BB asked for other comments. JT noted that after the last meeting there was a nice summary, and that she expects that the upcoming meeting will bridge back to the summary in order to draw clear lines and conclusions that build on past work. 

**OSS Security Moonshot: Overall Goals and Activity Streams**

The Open Source Software Security Moonshot is a plan, consisting of a series of ambitious work streams working in concert, that will lead to a major step-function improvement in the security and trustworthiness of all open source software.

BB apologized for the delay in getting the first draft of the plan document to the board. The goal of this [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JhQt6bXwTWXo7e4jpIBVegqt_iYrSIpYTBEsu9zeMzU/) (available in the OpenSSF Google Drive) is to provide enough guidance and substance behind each work stream to instill confidence in private and public sector actors, to the level where a series of commitments can be made by those parties in the form of personnel, capital, and alignment with other internal initiatives. They should be bold and aim to achieve what no single company or government effort could achieve, but also pragmatic enough to demonstrate value in their first year of operation.

BB then walked through the goals and their activity streams. BB offered to schedule followup meetings with those interested in getting involved with the streams, and those volunteering to lead drafting. Volunteers are recorded below, and in the document. BB reviewed the timeline of the schedule to prepare the work items and documents for the first day of the summit. 

Brian Fox volunteered to help support Stream(s) 3, 8, 9, 10 and the SBOM discussion.

Neil Allen and Gareth Rushgrove volunteered to participate in the SBOM discussion. There was general consensus that OpenSSF should align on one format for SBOM.

AvdS requested to bring Alan Friedman in Stream 9, as well as the SPDX and CycloneDX teams together.

Sarah Novotny (SN) volunteered to support the drafting process on behalf of Microsoft. SN also indicated that Microsoft is interested in the SBOM discussion.

Andrew Aitken (AA) noted that Wipro is working independently on Stream 12, and is happy to share output as it becomes more relevant for OpenSSF.

Tim Pepper (TP) expressed interest in Streams 1 & 2.

Rao Lakkakula (RL) expressed interest in Streams 5 & 7.

JHH indicated interest in working on Streams 7 & 8. 

JHH asked what the Public Policy Committee can do in preparation for the meeting. BB admitted that he had not considered how to engage them on this. BB asked for board consent to relay this to that committee and asked for assistance in reviewing this plan. JHH asked if we had an opinion on SBOM format. BB noted that this is something we should have an opinion on. Many board members requested to be involved in that conversation. 

Tracy Ragan (TR) asked if companies can bring in additional team members from their respective organizations. BB cautiously said yes, noting a need to ensure confidentiality. 

BB noted that it will be up to the teams to set direction and determine the right people.

Mike Hanley (MH) requested that Slack be used, and Jory Burson (JB) agreed to set up channels for each workstream.

MH requested that BB send an email to the board, summarizing the workstreams and how to get involved. 

BB noted that he will follow up with the board with a summary of the work, next steps and schedule.

JZ noted a delay in the planned CEO level White House conversations. The delay is due to the conflict in the Ukraine.  Another meeting may be scheduled, and JZ will try to get a more specific answer.

KC asked if he could shaare the prepared document with internal experts. 

**Any Other Business**

BB thanked everyone for attending the meeting, and encouraged everyone to take a look at the additional information provided in the slide deck. 

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 6:58 AM Pacific Time.
