
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)




**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD (FOR PUBLIC RELEASE)

13 July 2023

  

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 13 July 2023 at 8:07 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members In Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Voting Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Observer</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Bala Sathiamurthy
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Debashis Das
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Capital One
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Benjamin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Ed Warnicke
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Justin Hutchings
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Anne Bertucio
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Liang Xu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta 
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Ware
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Benjamin Flatgard
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Steve Clarke
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Rohlf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Walli
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Declan O’Donovan
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Gaja Anand
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann	
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chainguard (General Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dan Lorenc
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Indeed (General Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Alex Thurlow
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog (General Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP (Assoc. Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>CRob Robinson	
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Arnaud Le Hors
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SCIR
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Luke Hinds
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Omkhar Arasaratnam
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CTO
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ecosystem Strategist
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Bennett Pursell 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chief of Staff
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Harry Toor 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Technical Project Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Adrianne Marcum 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VP of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Program Management
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Marketing Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP of Program Operations
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Todd Moore
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Khahil White 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director, The Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Guests</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marketing Committee Co-Chair 
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Deploy Hub
   </td>
   <td>Tracy Ragan
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Omkhar Arasaratnam (OA) called the meeting to order at 8:07 am Pacific Time, Khahil White (KW) and Adrianne Marcum (AFM) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda and Welcome [10 min]**

OA introduced the objectives and agenda for the meeting. 
Overview of charter inconsistencies added as topic.


OpenSSF commits to pre-reads be available 7 days in advance so markup for charter changes will be available by August 10th and will need ⅔ GB attendance to approve changes to the charter. 

**AI: OpenSSF staff will follow up with suggested charter changes ahead of the August board meeting before August 1**

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

OA reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Approval of Minutes**

OA called on the Resolution:

_RESOLVED: That the minutes of the May 4th, 2023 meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby confirmed, approved and adopted with the change of “Intel Corporation” to “Intel.”_

Governing Board

Arun Gupta motioned to approve.

Andrew Van Der Stock seconded the motion. 

All in favor.

**Message from the GM**

OA commented on his first 60 days and goals for upcoming months.

**Decisions requiring input this board meeting**

1. London Meetup
2. Public Policy Funding
3. DevRel Committee

**Updates and information**

OA went over staffing updates. Clarified that nearly all open roles are closed. 

Approve OpenSSF to host a [London OpenSSF ](#slide=id.g22ee13d4b4f_2_7)meet-up the week of Sept 11 ahead of OpenSSF Day EU.

GB suggested pre-approvals for events within budget without having to vote on each event.


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Voting Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>London Meetup Vote
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta
   </td>
   <td>Abstain
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td>Abstain
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP (Assoc. Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


London meetup passed with quorum: 7 votes for approve, 2 for abstain

**Governance updates**

OA presented slides on how to improve our governance, standardization, and mobilization plan as the next set of interesting work that doesn’t have funding yet.	

OA offered a case study on OpenSSF’s inability to submit a position on CISA Self-Attestation public input request as an example of the need for improved structure and planning.

**TAC Updates**

TAC representative CRob presented working group updates for identifying security threats, GUAC, and progress on the sterling toolchain.

The GUAC project moved into the incubation phase as part of the supply chain integrity working group.

Tooling/SBOM WG update - [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NfrSKl8vCFXe1IgZkL2tH61orM1fFdOdQmRNOmK1Ujo](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NfrSKl8vCFXe1IgZkL2tH61orM1fFdOdQmRNOmK1Ujo/edit#slide=id.p1)

Supply Chain Integrity WG update - [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dSvWNKQYi52iGMxSpfbjVJf4SJLwWy5IcMcOYFnwBHs](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dSvWNKQYi52iGMxSpfbjVJf4SJLwWy5IcMcOYFnwBHs) 

Sterling Toolchain details can be found here - [https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society/tree/main/SecurityToolbelt](https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society/tree/main/SecurityToolbelt)

**Public Policy Committee Recommendations**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) presented the Public Policy committee's proposal. The Committee asks the Governing Board for a budget of $20k (as a variance to the current budget, and to be administered by OpenSSF staff) for content development. This will assist the Committee in the timely preparation of responses to RFCs, blog posts, white papers, or other public publications, which by the current charter, will continue to require GB approval.

Discussion ensued, and the committee will come back with proposed changes to the charter to address the reporting.

**AI: Comeback with a list of what the PPC will be responsible for once the charter is approved by the GB - BB**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Voting Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Public Policy Vote
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td>Abstain
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>Nay
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>Abstain
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP (Assoc. Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


PPC funding passed with quorum: 6 votes for approve, 1 vote for deny, 2 for abstain

**Governance Committee Recommendations [Exhibit B]**

Jeff Borek (JB) presented the recommendations from the governance committee to create a DevRel committee as a subcommittee of the marketing committee.

The DevRel committee will be created as a marketing subcommittee that conducts all meetings publicly, allows voting by approved non-members (approval process TBD), and coordinates activities with the TAC periodically (periodicity TBD).


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Voting Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>DevRel
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP (Assoc. Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock
   </td>
   <td>Aye
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


DevRel subcommittee passed with quorum: 10 votes for approve

**Marketing Committee Recommendations**

Tracy Ragan (TR) presented recent work from the marketing committee, the upcoming editorial calendar for blogs, and the blog guidelines for the OpenSSF: [https://openssf.org/community/blog-guidelines/](https://openssf.org/community/blog-guidelines/)

**Budget and Finance Updates**

OA presented the current status of the OpenSSF budget, as well as two additional scenarios, +20% and -20% projections.

**OKR Snapshot Survey**

AFM presented the current status of the OKR snapshot survey and asked for additional input. The survey closes on July 20th.

**Closing**

OA closed out the meeting with a recap of decisions made, as well as the fact that the team will be following up with additional meetings prior to the next board meeting. 

**Summary**

OA quickly summarized the decisions.



* Action Item:  OpenSSF staff will follow up with suggested charter changes and give to GB for electronic vote.
* London Meetup - passed
* Public Policy Funding  - passed and come back with what the PPC will be responsible for once the charter is approved by the GB 
* DevRel Committee  - passed

**Adjournment**

OA called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 9:16 AM Pacific Time.
