
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)


**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD (FOR PUBLIC RELEASE)

23 October 2023

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 23 October 2023 at 9:00 am Pacific Time via In-Person and teleconference.


**Governing Board Members In Attendance**

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Voting Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Observer</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hepple
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Bala Sathiamurthy
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Debashis Das
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Capital One
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mike Benjamin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Nureen D'Souza 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Ed Warnicke
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Per Beming
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mike Linksvayer
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Anne Bertucio
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Liang Xu
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta 
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Ware
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Benjamin Flatgard
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Steve Clarke
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Rohlf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Walli
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Declan O’Donovan
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Gaja Anand
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann	
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Wim Coekaerts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Chris Wright
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Wayman
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chainguard (General Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dan Lorenc 
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Socket (General Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Bradley Meck Farias
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog (General Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP (Assoc. Mem. Rep)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>CRob Robinson	
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Arnaud Le Hors
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SCIR
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Luke Hinds
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager, OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Omkar Arasaratnam
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chief of Staff, OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Harry Toor 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ecosystem Strategist, OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Bennett Pursell 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Technical Project Manager, OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Adrianne Marcum 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VP of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Program Management
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Khahil White 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Community Manager
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Cheuk Ho
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Marketing Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Inside Sales Representative & Manager
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Randi Armour
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Executive Director, The Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects, The Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP of Program Operations, The Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Todd Moore
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Invited Guests</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alpha Omega Rep
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alpha Omega Rep
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Micheal Scovetta
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Call to Order 

Omkhar Arasaratnam (OA) called the meeting to order at 9:04 am Pacific Time, Khahil White (KW), Dr. Amanda Martin (DM) and Adrianne Marcum (AM) recorded the minutes. Arun Gupta gave an introduction as the new Governing Board Chair. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

## Attendance, Antitrust, Voting

DM introduced the objectives and agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

DM reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

Harry Toor (HT) noted two observing members invited to join the meeting. OA introduced new staff (Dana Wang, Chief Architect) who provided a brief introduction and insights on the OpenSSF landscape so far. 

## Approval of Minutes

* _WE HEREBY APPROVE: That the minutes of the August 17th, 2023 meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby confirmed, approved and adopted. Minutes attached as [Exhibit A](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18vm0z2q7CShJm-z8C2FvNhR5y_KNemv-/view?usp=sharing)._
    * Stephen Augustus motioned to approve.
    * Rao seconded the motion. 
    * All in favor.

## Approval of MVSR

* _WE HEREBY APPROVE: That the Mission, Vision, Values, and Strategy as defined in the attached in [Exhibit B](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_oLsODuHRv2kYYn8meBUc9T6e68BZQFsknYBG642acw/edit#heading=h.e9uhthj01hdc) is approved._
    * CRob MVS motioned to approve.
    * Eric Brewer seconded the motion. 
    * All in favor.

## Alpha-Omega Update 

Bob Callaway presented an update on the state of Alpha Omega. BC explained there are two groups of giving money, the most critical projects (Alpha) and then the long tail of projects (Omega). They have different challenges. BC highlighted the word “catalyze" to illustrate the project just wants to start things and does not want to fund forever. Over $5M funded as of today over four types of grants. Majority of funding has been to staffing. No head of security at Eclipse, so funding is really helping move them forward. Explained each of the grant types in more detail with examples. All grant recipients post monthly updates in repo for visibility.

Q: Has A-O reached out to interact and support with new artifact repos to harden against these attacks? Good callout, but have not been proactively reaching out at this point with half the effort so far being half reactive and half proactive.

Q: Are there plans to protect ML repos, like HuggingFace, that let you embed scripts that run? (directed to both OpenSSF and A-O) That will need further discussion outside of this meeting.

Q: Related to constrained funding, how does A-O define success? Depends on the recipient rather than the area of funding. Annual Report will come out soon to show more details.

Briefly to staffing and overall changes to Omega approach. Goal is to catalyze growth and commit to finding scalable approaches. Pivoting from engineering experiment to funding organizations alighed with Omega’s goals

Q: What is the prioritization when selecting grant recipients? Primarily looking at the blast radius of a project and the impact security improvement will have overall. Team also looks at the mindset and willingness to learn and update their approach.

Q: What is the connection to the WGs now that funding has been redirected and the engineering work is not being done internally with Omega? Yes, the team wants to partner with Security Tooling WG to discuss what the next best steps and tools are to increase adoption across ecosystems. Increasing bidirectional conversation to understand why tools are or are not being adopted. 

Q: Have we shared the Eclipse Foundation story, with its focus on more sustainable mode, more broadly? We need to share the story more broadly so others can duplicate it. PSF blogging and taking findings back to Securing Software Repos WG. Communication is happening organically, but there are always opportunities to increase coverage. 

Q: Can we tie funding to specific metrics like increasing OpenSSF Scorecard by some amount? Do not want to be that prescriptive. The conversation starts with the foundation outlining what will work best. There is advocacy for using the OpenSSF tools that are helpful to project needs. May be able to measure the improvement using Scorecard, if it makes sense. 

Q: Is A-O considering government push toward memory safe languages? A-O is supporting memory safe initiatives like OpenSSL and Rustls, but acknowledges that memory unsafe software is not going anywhere and will have to protect from that perspective as well. 

## LF Staff Read-Outs

* Ecosystem Projects Update
    * Bennett Pursell presented updates on: 
        * OpenWall OSS-Security lists What about moving to cloud eventually? The problem was to ensure cloud provider couldn’t get private data, so haven’t done that.
            * Q: Is there concern about moving to Amsterdam b/c of CRA? Hasn’t been brought up; original alternative was Canada.
            * Q: What about moving to cloud eventually? The problem was to ensure cloud provider couldn’t get private data, so haven’t done that.
        * CTI migration 
            * Action: Provide GB updates on what is happening + share quarterly TAC updates
            * GB Action: Request for community contacts to help ease engagement
        * OpenSSF Git project hosting 
            * Q: How can folks help? BP will create a document for support. 
            * Suggestion to use the OpenSSF namespace for long term supported projects and the ossf for those that are experimental. Will that be confusing for developers? Open to methods to support differentiation. Security Insights has released an outline of project stage requirements.
* Health Check Update
    * KW presented an update on the repo checklist.
* Scorecard
    * AM presented an update on OpenSSF Scorecard.
    * Volunteer for front end development & product management, plus demo of remediation tooling.
    * Idea for trusted OpenSSF Scorecard weighting templates for orgs to select from rather than customize from scratch.
    * **Action: Security scoring across multiple committees; add as a discussion item to the next governance meeting agenda.**
* SOSS Update
    * HT presented an update of the panels and activities from the SOSS event.
    * Looking into the possibility of a SOSS EU summit, any assistance that can be provided is welcome.
    * Task forces had a broad scope with approaching each subject. 
    * Task forces established in this way to anchor on the things that the membership continues to support and has the capability to deliver on during the next year. Can discontinue work that stops making sense to do.
    * Plan to continue SOSS-US and SOSS-EU annually.
* Budget Update
    * HT presented the proposed 2024 budget.
    * Comment to be very deliberate with attendance at SecurityCon and similar OS security events.
    * Looking to bring together projects across the LF for SecurityCon (name may change) currently we have a hold for the third weekend of October in 2024.
    * Comment about OpenSSF engaging with more communities to position as a central OS security source.
    * VulnCon mentioned - What does LF Staff participation look like? Is this attending/participating or is it sponsoring these types of events? If it is sponsoring, then tradeoff discussions will be required.
    * Event strategy should identify the target audience for the OpenSSF and work to create our own must-attend event, bringing more foundations together in the lens of security focus.
    * Question about revenue which is expected to be flat. Current budget exceeds revenue expectations which will have to be adjusted long term.

### Resolving an Identity Crisis: What’s Next for OpenSSF, 2024 Planning and Prioritization

OA presented newly GB approved Mission, Vision, and Strategy,  quotes, and different context types to keep in mind during discussion on future direction of OpenSSF. Types of work currently supported by OpenSSF were outlined in terms of cost, time, and impact. Concern that funding to support security initiatives will decrease as trends change and want to make sure OpenSSF is supporting initiatives that provide higher return and sustainability. The listed criteria are important, but including aspects of sustainability and increased commitment are also important to consider. It was noted that there is dependency between the types of work and want to clarify the duration [of types of work] to better inform the scope. Convening is important to build trust needed for the other types of work, particularly internet-facing services.  \
Recommendation to split the services based on criticality, volume, etc. A second recommendation split services into the following categories:

* Incubate - define services, not high cost
* Advocate for long-term funding to run services 
* Credential entities (like consumer reports, UL) to verify different service providers that can split the hosting. Community concerns about picking winners, but certifying providers does not select a single winner. Provide service definition and compliance for providers to meet for certification.

Funding has notoriously been an issue and will be problematic long-term given the variance of the current proposed budget. Short term grants were mentioned at the SOSS meeting. Can potentially use an escrow model in which the government can allocate funds to a general pot that OpenSSF can assign out as appropriate.

* Volunteers to determine services model makes sense for OpenSSF: 
    * Stephen Augustus (Cisco)
    * Brian Fox (Sonatype) 
    * Ryan Ware (Intel)
    * Tim Pepper (VMWare)
    * Sarah Evans (Dell)
    * Stephen Walli (Microsoft)
    * Arun Gupta (Intel)
    * Anne Bernatio (Google)
    * Bob Callaway (Google)
    * John Heimann(Oracle)
    * Stephen Chin (JFrog)
    * CRob (TAC)
    * Eric B (Google)
    * Rao (JP Morgan Chase)
    * Mike Linksvayer (GitHub)
    * **Action item: Invite entire GB**

OA presented proposed board member duties including working board vs governing board specifically that a working board is heavily involved in the day to day work in addition to governance duties.

GB size is too large to be a working board and the level of detail the board is currently involved with can be too in depth to move quickly. The ONCD-RFI breakout group is a good example of how work can be done quickly with GB delegating heavy work out to volunteers and staff with GB oversight. Need to continue being clear on long term committees and task related groups that will be short lived efforts.

Two anti-patterns have presented themselves: either someone makes a decision with delegated decision making power and is swarmed or someone is not sure who can make the decision and presents to several different groups slowing progress. Cleaning up the hybrid model and discussions this afternoon should reduce the occurrence of each of these issues. 


### Working Lunch: Bureaucracy Hacking

Section skipped for time.

### TAC Update

CRob gave a top level update on the current state of the TAC, including:
* Python Software Foundation Alpha Omega work
    * Idea: How to highlight and reward members for their contributions?
* Open Source Consumption manifesto
* Scorecard 4.12 release
* Security Toolbelt (formerly known as Sterling Toolchain)
* FSI completing similar effort
* Sigstore in GA and SLSA 1.0 released
* Strategic alignment session upcoming in November
* Goals: WG & Project MVSRs, implementation of consistent processes aligned with approved Operating Model, Security Toolbert v1.0 draft
* Most critical need is the participation of security experts from organizations.
* Q: Are we off by what percent for community contributions? Not clear but we know more contributions is necessary to either collaborate on initiatives or determine whether initiatives need to be de-scoped.
* Idea: Create “letter to boss” template letter for requesting staff at member companies to contribute (based off of the events team “Letter to manager” for travel funding).
* Idea: “matching maker documentation” Better ways to onboard new community members into the projects.
* Intel has biweekly meeting to incentivize participation in OpenSSF
* Q: How are we getting contributions from General Members? Recently held Associate Member forum and rolling out General Member forum as well to drive better engagement.

### Operating Model, Associated Funding and Consistent Taxonomy 

Sarah Evans shared Slido link to capture feedback during the presentation. SE discussed the Technical Initiative (TI)  lifecycle at a high level, clarifying that Graduated means a TI has been fully formed/adopted. Funding overview was shared as reference to the proposed funding available to TIs at given lifecycle stages. 

SE outlined processes required related to sustainable funding of TIs. TAC does not want to approve funds, but is open to approving TI fund requests from a technical perspective to relay to a budget committee. Comments if that if the amount is under a certain amount, then a separate approval shouldn’t be needed. Defining the process and whether an operating committee requires data on the quantity and types of funding requests tobe useful. Is the 8% allotted for TI funding enough? OpenSSF’s sales pitch is not as strong as other organizations on why projects should choose to join this foundation. Must be able to provide a clear list of benefits projects get when joining OpenSSF. Projects should also be aware of what funding is available for projects and what the process is to request funding. GB needs to determine whether we would like preset amounts per project and/or an operating committee that approves requests. Need to understand where the responsibility and accountability ultimately lies on distributed funds. 

SE outlined processes required related to sustainable funding of technical services. Concerns about funding high costs services in 2024 or until a 5 year runway budget is confirmed. Q: Can LF cover some of the costs of covering critical services? Need to more clearly define what services are being provided at different lifecycle stages and project types. TAC has started on this work and will work in parallel with Staff’s Health Check effort to get responsibilities and benefits per lifecycle stage documented.

SE presented OpenSSF Structure diagram. Comment that presented workflow diagram will take a good deal of time from GB. This point was countered because this board is not a traditional board and consists of very active donors. Concern about Projects standing separately from WGs, but clarified that projects still report through WGs and provide community for those project members. Projects still have access to the TAC. Want to avoid overlap or gap scenario with GB and Staff completing work. Agreed that all decisions going through GB slows progress and need to finalize which subgroups have delegated responsibility. 

Discussion ensued on whether we should be a working board or not and if we give the committees charters or they define their own charters. GB has the responsibility to provide structure for continuity as members move in and out of the TAC, committees, etc. Committee specific questions outlined. Recommendation for simplified conceptual model of R&Rs/where decisions are made and work is done. 

Strategic Initiatives operationalization slide presented highlighting the need to support both “top down” and “bottom up” initiatives. Need for simplified structure was reiterated. Countered by the legal perspective that the GB is responsible for everything, however as governing board, not board of directors, there is no fiduciary responsibility of the board. The simplified, 3-tiered diagram (GB, TAC, Staff) is a functional diagram of how work is done. GB does write the checks and has responsibility to their member companies. “Responsible” vs “accountable for” need to be differentiated. How hands-on should the GB be in doing day to day work, be in the technical weeds, etc? Can be accountable for decisions as GB while being a governing board rather than working board even if other committees are responsible for the day to day.

Finalized document will be presented for vote in December.

## Closing

OA closed the meeting with an invitation to continue discussion on “Resolving an Identity Crisis” in the afternoon or at another time before the next board meeting, which will be held in December. 

**Decisions** 

1. MVS approved

**Action Items**

* Select a notification method to provide CTI updates to GB
* GB Request for contacts to help ease CTI community engagement
* GB volunteers to define different types of services to potentially fund
* Add agenda item about security scoring across multiple WGs to the next governance meeting

## Adjournment

OA called the meeting to a close, and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 1:20 PM Pacific Time.
