
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)



**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD (FOR PUBLIC RELEASE)

4 May 2023

  

A combined meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Advisory Council of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 4 May 2023 at 8:03 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members In Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>Adrian Ludwig
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Capital One
   </td>
   <td>TBD
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chainguard
   </td>
   <td>Tracy Miranda (General Membership Representative)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>Scott Roberts
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>Erik Ekkuden
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google*
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Indeed
   </td>
   <td>Duane O’Brien (General Membership Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta 
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin (General Membership Representative)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Declan O’Donovan
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP*
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Rep)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann	
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Zach Steindler**

**Stepehen Walli**

**Dustin Ingram (Google)**

**EdWarnicke**

**Per Beming**

**Observers, Invited Guests, and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observer</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>  X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Anne Bertucio
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny (for Mark Russinovich)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Ware
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Micheal Brown
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>TAC Representatives and Invited Guests</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Aeva Black
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya	
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>CRob Robinson	
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dan Lorenc
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Josh Bressers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>X</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Luke Hinds
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Omkar Arasaratnam
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CTO
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VP of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Director of Program Management
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Marketing Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Todd Moore
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Khahil White 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Kurt Taylor
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Francis
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jim Zemlin
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 8:03 am Pacific Time, Khahil White (KW) and Amanda Martin (AM) recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the  meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda and Welcome [10 min]**

BB introduced the objectives and agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Staffing Directory**

ADD LUKE!!! 

**Approval of Minutes**

BB called on the Governing Board Members to approve the minutes of the 6 April 2023 meeting of the Governing Board

Jamie motioned to approve.

Stephen from seco seconded the motion. 

All in favor

**Staffing changes & Recruiting Updates**

BB presented on the recent staffing changes and introduced Omkhar as the new OpenSSF General Manager, and BB’s move to CTO.

Omkhar introduced himself to the governing board

**Combined Session of TAC and Governing Board [80 min]**

**Quick Highlights **

BB presented on quick updates including the launch of SLSA 1.0 stable, RSTUF donation, OpenVEX donation, the upcoming OpenSSF vulnerability disclosure polices, and recent OpenSSF community blogs

BB asked if this update is helpful. Yes statements shown in chat. 

**Open SSF Day North America: 5/10/23 [Exhibit C]**

BB presented on the state of OpenSSF Day North America 2023 (Wednesday in Vancouver Canada.) OpenSSF Day is next week! 

 Invited people to reception on Tuesday night.

Mention Anjana and Jack looking to connect.

**TAC election update**

BB gave an update on the TAC election KW TO FILL IN NAMES VIA COPYPASTA

**Mobilization Plan update**

BB, close to one year mark since the document was created, the governance committee has begun to consider a process to define and then manage an update. GB recommends that OpenSSF mobilization plan have the governance committee take on the task on if the mobilization plan requires an update.

Discussion ensued on how to move forward with the mobilization plan. Is it worth the time and effort? 

	Tracy Miranda noted that this is worth the effort. 

	Arun we must be deliberate on what we choose, we should be very conscious on if we pick up a new stream 

Is there agreement from the that this is an issue for the GC 

	Eric Brewer shared that the MP needs updated.

	Jamie Thomas emphasized that the policy aspect is cruicial.

	Jeff Borek reminded us of the MP progress report a few months ago.

	BB opened an invitnation to the GC subcommittee meeting to the rest of the board.

	Emily Fox clarified the process for MP.

		That new streams should go through the GC and TAC.

	Eric Brewer chats the intention of the GC is that when the TAC needs feedback from the GB, it actually works with the GC first in more detail.

		Many are in agreement.

	Francis chats clearing up the relationships between the TAC/GB/GC is on our short list of efficiency topics to address in 2023 as well, part of Objective 1: "The OpenSSF staff, volunteers and governing board members are efficient at decision making"

	Mike Hanley encourages us to focus on the basics before the new things. 

	Stephen Augustus feels that AI/ML is wanting open source opinions and now might be a good time. 

Arun recommends we look into exploring edge

Luke Hinds drafted a proposal for a AI/ML WG

Action is that the GC will look into updating the streams and that is the right place to address this problem. The GB will vote on teh final product. 

**CRA Update**

BB presented on what the CRA is, and opened discussion on directions to the CRA. Opened call to action if any GB or TAC would like to join the Public Policy Committee. 

Anne Bertucio mentioned that the public policy committee needs a charter and better notes.

CRob mentioned that much of the meeting is not on record but should have a charter.

Jamie Thomas shared that many parties are working on this and Part A might be the easier approach. 

Action: BB to get historical public policy committee charter and circulate. 

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 9:1 AM Pacific Time.
