
![OpenSSFLogo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51727488/232104184-d3c38a36-cf1e-487f-aba2-c2d548e3f7ef.png)




**The Open Source Security Foundation**

MINUTES OF GOVERNING BOARD (FOR PUBLIC RELEASE)

2 March 2023

  

A combined meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Advisory Council of the Open Source Security Foundation was held on 2 Feb. 2023 at 8:03 am Pacific Time via teleconference.

**Governing Board Members In Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Governing Board Member</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td>Kelly Ann
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td>Adrian Ludwig
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>AWS Security
   </td>
   <td>Mark Ryland
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Capital One
   </td>
   <td>TBD
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chainguard
   </td>
   <td>Tracy Miranda (General Membership Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cisco
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Augustus
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Citi
   </td>
   <td>Jonathan Meadows
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Coinbase
   </td>
   <td>Scott Roberts
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td>John Roese
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GitHub
   </td>
   <td>Mike Hanley
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>Eric Brewer
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google*
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (TAC Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Huawei
   </td>
   <td>Jingou Cui
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Jamie Thomas (Chair)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Indeed
   </td>
   <td>Duane O’Brien (General Membership Representative)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Intel Corporation
   </td>
   <td>Arun Gupta
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JFrog
   </td>
   <td>Stephen Chin (General Membership Representative)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>JP Morgan Chase
   </td>
   <td>Rao Lakkakula
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Meta
   </td>
   <td>Clyde Rodriguez
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>Mark Russinovich
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Morgan Stanley
   </td>
   <td>Declan O’Donovan
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>OWASP*
   </td>
   <td>Andrew van der Stock (Associate Member Rep)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Oracle
   </td>
   <td>John Heimann	
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Red Hat, Inc.
   </td>
   <td>Vincent Danen
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>Gareth Rushgrove
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Self-employed
   </td>
   <td>Ian Coldwater (Security Community Individual Rep)
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td>Kit Colbert
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>Subha Tatavarti
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Observers, Invited Guests, and Staff Attendance**


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Company</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Observer</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dell Technologies
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Anne Bertucio
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>IBM Corporation
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jeff Borek
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Novotny (for Mark Russinovich)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VMWare
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Tim Pepper
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>WiPro
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Andrew Aitken
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Apple
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Atlassian
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Robbie Gallagher
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>TAC Representatives and Invited Guests</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Aeva Black
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Abhishek Arya	
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>CRob Robinson	
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Dan Lorenc
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Josh Bressers
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Representative
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Luke Hinds
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Invited Guest
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Francis Perron
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>OpenSSF and Linux Foundation Staff</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>General Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VP of Open Source Supply Chain Security
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Marketing Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, GM of Projects
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mike Dolan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Strategic Advisor 
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Sam Ramji
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Khahil White 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sr. Program Manager
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Kurt Taylor
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SVP, Program Operations
   </td>
   <td><strong>✓</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Todd Moore
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Call to Order**

Brian Behlendorf (BB) called the meeting to order at 8:03 am Pacific Time, Kurt Taylor, and Khahil White recorded the minutes. A quorum of Governing Board Members was established for the conduct of business, and the  meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

**Agenda and Welcome**

BB introduced the objectives and agenda for the meeting. There were no additional topics added.

**Antitrust Policy Notice**

BB reminded the Governing Board of the Linux Foundation [antitrust policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy) notice to which all meetings must adhere.

**Approval of Minutes**

BB called on the Directors to approve the minutes of the 2 February 2023 meeting of the Governing Board, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. Upon motion made by Dir. Thomas, seconded by Dir. Gupta and approved by all Representatives in attendance, the following resolution was:  \




* **RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the 2 February 2023 meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby confirmed, approved and adopted. Andrew Van Der Stock, Tracy Miranda, and Stephen Chin abstained.

**Staffing changes **

BB updated the board on the recent staffing changes within the OpenSSF with the departure of Jory Burson, and the introduction of senior program manager Kurt Taylor.  Francis Perron announced as a Technical Program Manager volunteering from Google. Sam Ramji will be temporarily acting Chief of Staff to BB.

**Combined Session of TAC and Governing Board [80 min]**

**2023 Strategy Review**

BB Presented a review of the overall 2023 strategy (exhibit B) - develop Sterling Toolchain concept.

**Recruiting update**

BB gave an update on the 4 open roles and recruiting status of those positions. BB shared that the applicants for the Chief of Staff role have narrowed to 10 candidates. There were no questions.

**Upcoming Budget & Finance Committee Meeting**

Sam Ramji (SR) presented on the 2023 budget, and the establishment of a Budget & Finance Committee made up of 5 GB members, several candidates have volunteered to be a representative. 

ACTION ITEM: SR to meet with potential committee members ahead of the first committee meeting.

**Marketing Committee and DevRel Committee**

SR presented an update on the Marketing Committee, and asked members to send marketing leads to the committee. SR discussed the differences between the DevRel and Outreach functions.

Q: How is the DevRel committee different from an Ambassador program? 

A: The DevRel committee would be an executive committee that would define and manage an Ambassador program.  It would support and be supported by a Community Manager FTE, and chaired by a member of the Governing Board.

Ian Coldwater (IC) asked for more detail: how does this relate to the sec community representative? SR answered that it was orthogonal to the SCIR, as the SCIR is a Governing Board role; the SCIR is welcome to participate in a DevRel committee and may be ideal in helping to define this committee.

IC volunteered to assist in defining the DevRel committee.

Governance committee to work out a proposal for the Governing board for the new committee organization.

**Mobilization Plan Review**

BB presented a color coded short status overview mobilization plan slide, along with the funding status of each stream of the mobilization plan.

ACTION ITEMS: Add funding column to overview slide; Mike Hanley and Francis Perron to meet on how to accelerate spending funds on Mobilization Plan in 2023.

Call to action: GB members to formulate proposals that we can drive funding for. Examples are the [EDU.SIG](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/proposal_summary.md) and [SIRT](https://github.com/ossf/SIRT/blob/main/plan/proposal_summary.md) proposals. 

**Visualizing the OpenSSF: the Work of the “Diagrammers Society” SIG**

CRob presented the work of the Diagrammers’ Society SIG (Exhibit D - OpenSSF 1000s of Words)  to the GB for review.  GB attendees stated that the CI/CD map was helpful in explaining the OpenSSF to newcomers.

Will involve Marketing (Jennifer Bly) and LF Creative Services as the process progresses in order to ensure readability and accessibility of the diagrams.

**Adjournment**

BB called the meeting to a close and the meeting of the Governing Board adjourned at 9:25 AM Pacific Time.
